## The Question Behind the Question - by John Miller
> Recommendation: 3 / 10
    
### Description
A quick little read with one point: We should take full responsiblity. Instead of asking blaming questions like “Why is the service here so terrible?” ask empowering questions like “What can I do?”
    
### Notes
Lousy questions are negative and don’t solve any problems.<br>
They’re also the complete opposite of personal accountability, because in each one the implication is that someone or something else is responsible for the problem or situation.<br>
<br>
The answers are in the questions.<br>
If we ask ourselves a better question, we get a better answer.<br>
<br>
Guidelines for creating a better question:<br>
1. Begin with “What” or “How” (not “Why,” “When,” or “Who”).<br>
2. Contain an “I” (not “they,” “we,” or “you”).<br>
3. Focus on action.<br>
(“What can I do?” for example.)<br>
<br>
Stress is a choice.<br>
Stress is also the result of our choices.<br>
A victim mindset is extremely stressful.<br>
<br>
“When will we get the information we need to make a decision?”<br>
“When will they tell us what’s going on?”<br>
When we ask “When?” we’re really saying we have no choice but to wait and put off action until another time.<br>
Questions that begin with “When” lead to procrastination.<br>
<br>
Creativity is thinking outside the box?<br>
True creativity is succeeding within the box.<br>
Hitting targets, reaching goals, doing the job well, and making a difference with what we already have.<br>
<br>
“When are we going to hear something new?”<br>
The better question to ask is “How can I apply what I’m hearing?”<br>
<br>
A poor sailor blames the wind.<br>
A poor coach blames the players.<br>
<br>
Personal accountability does not begin with you. It begins with me.<br>
<br>
There is no ‘I’ in ‘team’?<br>
I disagree.<br>
No matter the team, there are plenty of I’s, individuals, who can practice personal accountability to help the team move forward.<br>
If everyone is asking, “What can we do?” then nobody is asking, “What can I do?”<br>
<br>
Good questions contain an “I,” not “they,” “we,” or “you.”<br>
Questions that contain an “I” turn our focus away from other people and circumstances and put it back on ourselves, where it can do the most good.<br>
We can’t change other people.<br>
We often can’t control circumstances and events.<br>
The only things we have any real control over are our own thoughts and actions.<br>
<br>
Ask a group, “What’s the one thing you would change to enhance the effectiveness of your organization?”<br>
Nobody ever says, “Me! I would change me to make our organization run more effectively.”<br>
(But they should.)
