## Nonviolent Communication - by Marshall Rosenberg
> Recommendation: 8 / 10
    
### Description
After years of so many people telling how much this book has helped them, I finally read it. And yeah, it’s impressive. Very compassionate and actively empathetic. Everyone who communicates should read this and take it to heart.
    
### Notes
Try to understand everything that anyone ever does.<br>
<br>
Express yourself with honesty and clarity, while simultaneously paying others a respectful and empathic attention.<br>
<br>
Observe carefully, and specify behaviors and conditions that are affecting you.<br>
<br>
Identify and clearly articulate what you want.<br>
<br>
Clarify what you observe, feel, and need rather than diagnosing and judging.<br>
<br>
Four components of NVC: observations, feelings, needs, requests.<br>
Observe what is actually happening in a situation: what you observe others saying or doing.<br>
Articulate this observation without introducing any judgment or evaluation.<br>
State how you feel when you observe this action: are you hurt, scared, joyful, amused, irritated?<br>
Say what needs are connected to the feelings you identify.<br>
<br>
What I am observing, feeling, and needing<br>
What I am requesting to enrich my life<br>
What you are observing, feeling, and needing<br>
What you are requesting to enrich your life<br>
<br>
Out beyond ideas of wrongdoing and right-doing, there is a field. I’ll meet you there.<br>
<br>
Analyses of others are actually expressions of your own needs and values.<br>
<br>
There is less violence in cultures where people think in terms of human needs - as compared to cultures where people label one another as “good” or “bad” and believe that the “bad” ones deserve to be punished.<br>
<br>
Language facilitates denial of personal responsibility.<br>
* Things you “have” to do.<br>
* “You make me feel…"<br>
* “I drink because I am an alcoholic.”<br>
You deny responsibility for your actions when you attribute their cause to factors outside yourself.<br>
* The actions of others - “I hit my child because he ran into the street.”<br>
* The dictates of authority - “I lied to the client because the boss told me to.”<br>
* Group pressure - “I started smoking because all my friends did.”<br>
* Institutional policies, rules, and regulations - “I have to suspend you for this infraction because it’s the school policy.”<br>
* Gender roles, social roles, or age roles - “I hate going to work, but I do it because I am a husband and a father.”<br>
* Uncontrollable impulses - “I was overcome by my urge to eat the candy bar.”<br>
Replace language that implies lack of choice with language that acknowledges choice.<br>
<br>
Don’t mix together what someone does, with how you react to it.<br>
When you combine observation with evaluation, you decrease the likelihood that others will hear your intended message.<br>
Instead, they are apt to hear criticism and thus resist whatever you are saying.<br>
<br>
I’ve never seen a stupid kid.<br>
I’ve seen a kid who sometimes did things I didn’t understand or things in ways I hadn’t planned.<br>
I’ve seen a kid who hadn’t seen the same places where I had been, but he was not a stupid kid.<br>
I’ve looked as hard as I can look but never ever seen a cook.<br>
I saw a person who combined ingredients on which we dined,<br>
A person who turned on the heat and watched the stove that cooked the meat - I saw those things but not a cook.<br>
Tell me, when you’re looking, Is it a cook you see or is it someone doing things that we call cooking?<br>
<br>
Observe without evaluating.<br>
<br>
Evaluations<br>
→ Observations<br>
You seldom do what I want.<br>
→&nbsp;The last three times I initiated an activity, you said you didn’t want to do it.<br>
<br>
Evaluations are more likely to be heard as criticism than as invitations to connect with our feelings.<br>
Evaluations often lead to self-fulfilling prophecies.<br>
A husband, for example, hears himself criticized for behaving like a wall; he is hurt and discouraged and doesn’t respond, thereby confirming his wife’s image of him as a wall.<br>
<br>
Confusion generated by the English language: our use of the word “feel” without actually expressing a feeling.<br>
For example, in the sentence, “I feel I didn’t get a fair deal,” the words I feel could be more accurately replaced with “I think”.<br>
“I feel unimportant to the people with whom I work.”<br>
The word unimportant describes how I think others are evaluating me, rather than an actual feeling,<br>
“I feel misunderstood.”<br>
The word misunderstood indicates my assessment of the other person’s level of understanding rather than an actual feeling.<br>
In this situation, I may be feeling anxious or annoyed or some other emotion.<br>
<br>
What others say and do may be the stimulus, but never the cause, of our feelings.<br>
<br>
On receiving a negative message, shine the light of consciousness on the other person’s feelings and needs as they are currently expressed.<br>
For example ask, “Are you feeling hurt because you need more consideration for your preferences?”<br>
<br>
Guilt trip: to attribute the responsibility for one’s own feelings to others.<br>
<br>
Judgments of others are alienated expressions of our own unmet needs.<br>
<br>
When we express our needs indirectly through the use of evaluations, interpretations, and images, others are likely to hear criticism.<br>
And when people hear anything that sounds like criticism, they tend to invest their energy in self-defense or counterattack.<br>
<br>
Talk about what you need rather than what’s wrong with someone.<br>
<br>
We believe ourselves responsible for the feelings of others.<br>
We think we must constantly strive to keep everyone happy.<br>
If they don’t appear happy, we feel responsible and compelled to do something about it.<br>
This can easily lead us to see the very people who are closest to us as burdens.<br>
Taking responsibility for the feelings of others can be very detrimental to intimate relationships.<br>
“I’m really scared to be in a relationship.”<br>
<br>
We may continue to carry remnants of fear and guilt around having our own needs.<br>
<br>
Emotional liberation:<br>
Respond to the needs of others out of compassion, never out of fear, guilt, or shame.<br>
Your actions are therefore fulfilling to you, as well as to those who receive your efforts.<br>
Accept full responsibility for our yown intentions and actions, but not for the feelings of others.<br>
State clearly what you need in a way that communicates you are equally concerned that the needs of others be fulfilled.<br>
<br>
You can never meet your own needs at the expense of others.<br>
<br>
Vague language contributes to internal confusion.<br>
<br>
Tell me what you would like me to do to give you the love you’re looking for.<br>
Specify which thoughts you’d like them to share.<br>
<br>
Ask people to reflect back your words.<br>
What do you think about what I’ve said?<br>
Make clear that you’re not testing their listening skills, but checking out whether you’ve expressed yourself clearly.<br>
<br>
The best time to interrupt is when you’ve heard one word more than you want to hear.<br>
The longer you wait, the harder it is to be civil when we do step in.<br>
In India, when people have received the response they want in conversations they have initiated, they say “bas“ (pronounced “bus”).<br>
This means, “You need not say more. I feel satisfied and am now ready to move on to something else.”<br>
<br>
If you interpret noncompliance as rejection, your requests will be heard as demands.<br>
To tell if it’s a demand or a request, observe what the speaker does if the request is not complied with.<br>
It’s a request if the speaker then shows empathy toward the other person’s needs.<br>
<br>
The most powerful way to communicate that you are making a genuine request is to empathize with people when they don’t agree to the request.<br>
Show an empathic understanding of what prevents someone from doing what you asked.<br>
Choosing to request rather than demand does not mean you give up when someone says no to your request.<br>
It does mean that you don’t engage in persuasion until you have empathized with what’s preventing the other person from saying yes.<br>
<br>
Empathy: emptying your mind and listening with your whole being.<br>
Empathy with others occurs only when you have successfully shed all preconceived ideas and judgments about them.<br>
<br>
Every living situation has, like a newborn child, a new face, that has never been before and will never come again.<br>
<br>
Intellectual understanding blocks empathy.<br>
<br>
No matter what words people use to express themselves, listen for their observations, feelings, needs, and requests.<br>
<br>
Questions require us to sense what’s going on within other people, while inviting their corrections should we have sensed incorrectly.<br>
When asking for information, first express your own feelings and needs.<br>
<br>
Speakers expressing intensely emotional messages appreciate your reflecting these back to them.<br>
<br>
If an aunt is repeating the story about how twenty years ago her husband deserted her and her two small children, we might interrupt by saying,<br>
“So, Auntie, it sounds like you are still feeling hurt, wishing you’d been treated more fairly.”<br>
People are not aware that empathy is often what they are needing.<br>
To bring a conversation back to life: interrupt with empathy.<br>
Conversations that are lifeless for the listener are equally so for the speaker.<br>
Speakers prefer that listeners interrupt rather than pretend to listen.<br>
<br>
“I really should give up smoking.”<br>
“I really have to do something about exercising more.”<br>
They keep saying what they “must” do and they keep resisting doing it.<br>
Human beings were not meant to be slaves.<br>
We were not meant to succumb to the dictates of should and have to, whether they come from outside or inside of ourselves.<br>
If we do yield and submit to these demands, our actions arise from an energy that is devoid of life-giving joy.<br>
<br>
Feelings, whether sadness, frustration, disappointment, fear, grief, or some other feeling:<br>
We have been endowed by nature with these feelings for a purpose.<br>
They mobilize us to pursue and fulfill what we need or value.<br>
This is substantially different from the disconnection that is brought on by guilt, shame, and depression.<br>
<br>
See how your behavior ran counter to your own needs and values.<br>
When I behaved in the way which I now regret, what need of mine was I trying to meet?<br>
Becoming conscious of both needs, I can imagine ways of behaving differently in similar situations and arriving at solutions more resourcefully than if I lose that consciousness in a sea of self-judgment.<br>
<br>
Don’t do anything that isn’t play.<br>
Be conscious of the life-enriching purpose behind your actions.<br>
When the sole energy that motivates us is simply to make life wonderful for others and ourselves, then even hard work has an element of play in it.<br>
(rather than out of fear, guilt, shame, duty, or obligation.)<br>
<br>
Serve life better by focusing attention on what you are needing.<br>
<br>
Replace the phrase<br>
“I am angry because they… ”<br>
with<br>
“I am angry because I am needing… ”<br>
<br>
Steps to expressing anger:<br>
1. Stop. Breathe.<br>
2. Identify our judgmental thoughts.<br>
3. Connect with our needs.<br>
4. Express our feelings and unmet needs.<br>
<br>
Translate:<br>
“I should do something with my life. I’m wasting my education and talents.”<br>
into:<br>
“When I spend as much time at home as I do without practicing my profession, I feel depressed and discouraged because I am needing the fulfillment I once had in my profession. Therefore, I now would like to find part-time work in my profession.”<br>
<br>
Diagnoses of patients in mental hospitals depended more upon the school the psychiatrist had attended than the characteristics of the patients themselves.<br>
<br>
We use positive feedback as a means to influence others.<br>
The beauty of appreciation is spoiled when people begin to notice the lurking intent to get something out of them.<br>
Use NVC to express appreciation, it is purely to celebrate, not to get something in return.<br>
Our sole intention is to celebrate the way our lives have been enriched by others.<br>
<br>
Saying “thank you” in NVC:<br>
“This is what you did; this is what I feel; this is the need of mine that was met.”<br>
<br>
There’s nothing enlightened about shrinking so that other people won’t feel insecure around you.<br>
<br>
Playing small doesn’t serve the world.<br>
<br>
To help introduce the guests to each other, we were to write down a question, drop it in a box, and then take turns, each person drawing out a question and responding to it out loud.<br>
I wrote this question:<br>
“What appreciation might someone give you that would leave you jumping for joy?”<br>
<br>
If I’m 98% perfect in anything I do, it’s the 2% I’ve messed up I’ll remember when I’m through.<br>
<br>
He neglected to study for an exam, and resigned himself to turning in a blank piece of paper with his name at the top.<br>
He was surprised when she later returned the test to him with a grade of 14 percent.<br>
“What did I get 14 percent for?” he asked incredulously.<br>
“Neatness.”<br>
<br>
Anything that is worth doing is worth doing poorly.
